Next, we will talk about
connectivity analytics with Cypher.
If you remember in module two,
we talked about connectivity analytics
in terms of network robustness.
In other words, a measure of how resistant
a graph network is to being disconnected.
Specifically, we used
two kinds of methods.
One computed the eigenvalues, and the
second computed the degree distribution.
For these examples, we're going to use
the second one, degree distributions.
And we will use the same graph
network we've used previously.
A simple graph representing
a road network.
And here's a listing of the query examples
we're going to be applying to our network.
My first query example finds all
of the outdegrees of all nodes.
Now, if you'll notice, this query consists
of two parts, because there's a specific
type of node, a leaf node, which does not
conform to this particular constraint.
So our first match statement finds
all nodes with outgoing edges,
as you can see here,
this is a directed edge.
And then,
we returns the names of the nodes and
the count as the variable outdegree.
And for convenience,
we order by outdegree.
And we need to combine that with
a specific query dealing with leaf nodes.
We're familiar with how to
do that from past examples.
And so, we'll match all leaf nodes and
return the name and
the value zero for its outdegree.
So when we submit this query we
get this listing right here.
The node P has 0 for its outdegree and
all of the other nodes are as we might
expect and they're ordered
by their value of outdegree.
Our next query finds
the indegree of all nodes,
which is very similar to
our previous example.
But, in this case, as you might expect,
we're going to take into account
root nodes instead of leaf nodes.
And so, our match involves incoming edges.
Indegree is a measure of all nodes
connected to a specific node with
incoming edges.
And we return similar results and
we union that with the specific query
commands to find all of the root nodes,
and then we return those names and
0 as the value of indegree.
So when we submit this query,
here's our results as we might expect.
In this case, H is our only root node.
So it has a value of 0 for indegree, and
all the other nodes
are as we might expect.
And our third query example
finds the degree of all nodes,
which is a combination of outdegree and
indegree.
So in this case we're not including any
specific direction in our match statement.
And we're returning the name and
the count for all of our edges.
But we're using the distinct statement,
otherwise we would be
counting some nodes twice.
And then, for convenience,
we order this by the value of degree.
And when we submit this query,
we get the results as shown here.
We have 1 column with the name and
the other column with the degree and
the values are as we would expect, we have
a leaf node P with the degree of 1 and
a root node H with a degree of 1.
Our next query example generates a degree
histogram of the graph since we're able to
calculate the degree of each node, we can
sort those into actual values of degree.
So if we look at the distribution
of degree among our nodes,
we see there's 2 nodes with the degree 1,
there's 3 nodes with degree 2,
there's 4 nodes with degree 3, and
there's 2 nodes with degree 4.
So we're going to group those
in the form of a histogram.
So when we submit this query,
we get this table.
The first column list the degree
value in ascending order and
the second column list the counts of
the nodes that have that degree value.
So for those of you who are familiar with
SQL you might recognize this as similar
to the group by command,
it performs a similar function
Our next query example saves the degree
of the node as a new node property.
This provides an added convenience so that
we don't have to calculate the degree of
a node every time we're
performing some sort of analysis.
So we match all nodes with edges, and
there's no direction in this
particular edge definition.
And then, we return distinct
counts of each node's degree, and
then we create a new property, called deg,
and assign the value of degree to it.
Then, we return the names and
the degree values, and so
when we submit this query,
we see this distribution right here,
with the names in the left column, and
the values of degree in the right column.
And we can verify that if we issue a
command to return all of the properties of
the specific node.
So in this case I issued a command
to match the node named D and
return all of its properties.
And sure enough we see that it has
a property name and a property degree.
Before we go to the last two examples,
there's a philosophical issue that we
need to remember with all databases.
Every database will allow you some
analytical computation and the remainder
of the analytical computations must
be done outside of the database.
However, it is always a judicious
idea to get the database to
achieve an intermediate result formatted
in a way that you would need for
the next computation.
And then, you use that intermediate result
as the input to the next computation.
We've seen that a number of
computations in graph analytics
start with the adjacency matrix.
So we should be able to force Cypher
to produce an adjacency matrix.
And this is what we're doing here.
So think of a Matrix as a three column
table, in which, here's one column,
here's another column, and the third
column will be the values that we
are calculating when we determine whether
two nodes have an edge between them.
And we're introducing a new
construct in Cypher called case.
This allows us to evaluate conditions and
return one result, or
a different result
depending on the condition.
Here, we're specifying that when
there is an edge between nodes n and
m, then we return a value of 1,
otherwise return a value of 0.
And we'll output those results as a value.
And so, when we submit this query,
we get our three column table in which
the first column is
the name of our first node.
The second column is the name of our
second node and the value is either a 1 or
a 1 depending on whether the nodes
have an edge between them.
So in this case we see node A and
C have an edge,
A and L have an edge and
so on as we would expect.
So if we can calculate the adjacency
matrix then we can calculate any matrix.
You might remember from our
module two lecture where we
learned about this complex structure
called the Normalized Laplacian Matrix.
So let's go ahead and calculate that.
We'll perform something very similar
to what we did in the previous example.
We'll match all nodes for
the first column, and all nodes for
the second column.
We'll return the names of those nodes and
then we'll use the case structure again
to compare the names of each node and
determine whether we have the same node.
If we do have the same node then
that is a diagonal of the matrix and
should get a value of 1.
If they are different nodes and
contain an edge between them,
then we calculate the normalized
Laplacian with this equation here.
And you'll also want to notice that here
we're using the actual degree property
that we assigned to the nodes
in a previous example.
This is an example of how that
can become a convenient option.
So when the calculation is performed,
the value would be returned.
If there's no edge between the 2 nodes,
then the value of 0 will be returned.
And these values will end
up in the value column.
So when we submit this query,
here's the table that get returned.
This is the first column
with the source node.
The second column with the target node and
the values.
So in the first row, the first node
is P and the second node is P, so
it's identical, which means it's
on the diagonal of the matrix.
Likewise, for A in this row down here.
And then the first value of the Laplacian
is calculated between nodes A and
C, and so on.
So that concludes our examples of how
to perform connectivity analytics
in Neo4j with Cypher.